Now,
you were working in an advertising firm when the
Depression begins, is that correct? And your work
doesn't ever suffer during the Depression? Oh
yes, it suffered. The main thing, we didn't have a
preponderance of weight. And our council was very
small. It was Anderson and Clayton. We had a house,
all of them, and some advertising. But we had
what's called a subsidiary of Anderson and
Clayton, like Southern Baggin and other places.
But we just had nothing to do with it. It was a
leisure place. And by the same, that didn't help me
to get along with my finance. We had time weekends
at night. But I kept on essentially pencil work
because that was a medium that I had found myself
in. And I had Chip. I had brought that in a while ago
while I was in New York. And I got this story in the
magazine, Eberhard Faber Pencil Company, old
Brooklyn. They got in touch with me, sent somebody
over to look and talk to me. And they talked me to
come over and work with them on testing out
different pencils. And they got a beautiful
brochure around New York of my pencil work with
National. But that's when I got, say, absorbed
with pencil work. And it's a tremendous medium.
You don't think it isn't because they use it. It's
fascinating, but it offers so much, and people
don't realize the hardness of the pencil. I've
tried everything. It goes from a 7-H onto a 6-B.
That's about 10 pencils, but barefoot edges. But
I've experimented. I learned to feel on different
papers, and I've made it. It was such a tremendous,
absorbing thing. But that's why we do so much
pencil work. I've got it done. In a sense, only
pencil work. And at the moment, I'm going back to it
again. But, of course, it's a forgotten medium. I
might say not forgotten, but it's an ignored one.
And it takes a lot of basic, well, sometimes when I
get up there, I can show you just what I mean, why you
can use the procedure with pencil. But I stay with
every hard favor, or just off and on, but I got
advertisements out for them, and brochures. And
it was good to use in architectural work and
everything. But that's what artists nowadays do
not get into that realm of things, that basic
drawing, I might call it, with pencil. Pencil is a
medium to use, because I try to use all of them now,
but everything is available. Every day there's
something new that comes out, and I just say, well,
let's give it a fling. It's a challenge. It's a
constant challenge. There's so much of it in art.
Of course, I'm devoting it to my subject, But I went
across the agency. I did a tremendous lot of work
for Humble, if you know what I mean. See, that was
one of the breaks I did get. I called it the
breakers. I worked like Humble Company, Standard
Oil. I worked for them. I was sent out into the field
constantly and on expense account. Yeah, but you
were freelancing, though, when you were with
Humble, were you not? No. I was with the agency, no.
I was a partner in the agency, but I was not on
salaries. I was free of that, but I didn't want it. I
wanted to be a free agent. So I stayed with them and
got, because my participation with the agency did
what it wanted, but I stayed with the agency for
contact. No one wanted it that way, but I went out on
my own, got everything piecemeal. But then I
picked up some others too, other accounts on my
own. Dow Chemical, I did a lot of work for them,
independent of the agency. But they wanted it
because it didn't hurt them any to have the name
clients. I had some bigger accounts there. This is
in the 30s still? No, that was way back. I'm jumping
the gun on you. But I went through the usual
routine. Now, because you were with Humble Way and
so forth in the 40s and 50s. Well, yes, I was there,
but we got Humble accounts in, I think, 1934 when we
picked it up. It started with the house organs at
that time, the lubricator and the beads. And the
Humble Way, which came later on into the 40s, we got
instigated to Humble Way. And that's when I got the
Texas sketchbook and everything. Because they
sent me on the road. They wanted to get... this
particular phase of it, I don't know if it's the
texana in it, but the romantic side of it. I had a
friend, Tank Fields, was my partner in this type of
thing, but we traveled, researched, but that was a
beautiful assignment, a Texas sketchbook. Then
we did The Prince, I don't know, just, well, having
this sort of, some amazing answer, but it might be
two or three hundred for The Prince, something
like that. But I was constantly, Right with my fine
art, to some extent. You make competitions. I'm
not advertising what these are, pictures. All
that's fine art. And they made, of course it was a
beautiful relation job. I say for humble, it was
good for me, but I got recognition. I mean, sacred
image. Believe me, you need one. All the talent in
the world don't help if you don't have content. I
was so fortunate in that respect that I had my
association with business, the business world,
And on end of it, there's some wonderful patrons,
but I've had a much better break than so many
artists have had, because not any outstanding
talent, but I had the connections. Believe me,
they count. I'm telling you, but I've seen some
beautiful talent that never could get on to first
base because they didn't have anyone. You have to
have a good dealer if he's for you, he can help you,
but a good dealer, but it's a hard road. God, you're
sick of it. So many of them, they're turning out
now, but some of them are magnificent artists. But
you're striving for recognition, you just have to
be patient. But I just put myself up, it's not a,
it's getting things, it's a hard way, I might call
it that, but it was tremendously worth it, God,
yes. Now, while you were working with the, you
stayed with the advertising agency all during the
30s then? Yeah, oh yeah, 30s and 40s and 50s, and
then the early 60s. I had two partners went to war,
at reserve offices when the war was, 42 or 43. But
they went and left the agency on my hands. I was
overnight, guess what? Buck, it's yours. We had a
meeting with the directors, stockholders, had
some humble people in the agency, had stock in it,
and so did Anderson Clayton. They want to close it
up. They had a meeting, said, Buck, this is it. We
said, oh, sorry, but there's no one to carry us.
They said, whoa, you're going to give me a chance.
Don't you do this to me. We're going to keep this
thing going. And if it doesn't prove hard, I'll
step aside very quickly, easily. And so we did, and
they said, all right, well, give me a vote of
confidence, God bless you, you know. Now all of a
sudden, overnight, I have, I'm with the second
biggest agency in the state, and I had a thing of the
administrator. I said, well, now, oh, I ran
scared, God, for Watkinson. Whoa, that's a little
praying hole in me. So, well, I won't go into all the
detail, but they had a lot of dead wood in there. I
got rid of all the dead wood, and the agency says,
this is a house kicking. Then I brought in key
people, even Atlanta, the West Coast, and put them
in there and allocate it the right way, and have
them all the same way. But I learned another thing
in the administration. The best of my ability, but
I mean, top of everything, get confidence in your
personnel, which I did, your participation, and
everything, but it was beautiful. And they came
back, they couldn't believe it. We got the cars
held up, didn't get in the red. So I turned over to
his agency, that would have gone four years, I
think. Thank you. Oh, he had another time over, but
he was, I had a problem, you know. I got booted out of
the Army. I had the finest career anybody could
have ever wanted, right at the top of the range, but
he couldn't contain himself. But anyhow. Was it an
alcohol problem? Oh yeah. They all had them, some
of them, my own. No, it's a nemesis. I've had it all
along, but I've had to find answers to that too. But
it got into this terrible environment. Oh my God,
20 hours a day, but this gold, please. So, no,
that's why I didn't want to have to find answers for
that and start a whole new career. But it's
terrible how much of it is transpired in
advertising agencies. I don't have the clients to
entertain them all the time. No. But... Well, when
did you find your place at Quirrell? About a year
ago. About a year ago. Well, before that, though,
you were... I was here. Yeah, but you... Oh, I know
that. But, I mean, before you came here, though,
you were out in the hill country for a while. Oh,
yes, I was there. We had our place, a beautiful
place in the hill country. Uh-huh. And we were out
there, and that was terrible. That was the worst
thing that ever happened to me because when they
got back and watched Joe and Paul come, Thank you.
They said, thank God. Now you need to rest, Buck.
Thank you. Oh, what a beautiful cloud of glass.
Yeah, goody, goody, goody. So what? And I said,
what you want you to do is go back to your place and
hunt and relax and retire. Well, I went up there in
the dead of winter. It was desolate. We didn't have
any summer homes or anything like that. And that
was a horrible experience. That's when I really
got no pride, no problems. Yeah. Now, let's say
that you go to hunt when, Buck? When do you go to hunt
then? Oh, I just, I don't hardly go to all of them.
No, I mean, when did you go to hunt? In 45, 46? We
bought the, no, because we bought this hunt place
back in 19, it was in 34 when we bought the hunt
place. Okay. And we just kept it as a summer place.
It had those houses on it. And finally, I went to
hunt more or less after I got back from the war. They
got back and went up there to try to carry on with my
work, paint and just go ahead. But I couldn't
attack myself. There was tremendous letdown.
Mm-hmm. And that ain't a forlorn, there's nothing
like a communication. Here I was with artists,
businessmen, all of a sudden, why would, with your
people out there, they're beautiful people, and
what they say, well, what be you doing this
morning, things like that. I didn't have any, no
communication. And somebody just come and say,
gee, I like what you're doing, I like this new book,
but never. But you need that. Not to go ahead and
build up your vanity or your, self-confident, but
I just need it down there. Just get a kind word. It's
better than all the monetary remuneration you can
get. I'd say, I think in my mind, I like, don't want
to praise, but I do like a few kind words. Yeah, and
don't you want to talk to people about your work?
Oh, yes. My God, yes. Oh. It would seem to me like the
New York experience would have been, for example,
for you to broaden yourself in the sense of talking
to people who were doing other things. Oh, yes,
that's right. But in my, in talking in my
vernacular, my God, yes, that was the beauty of
that New York. And I worked with these, the top
people there, I mean, Hodders, Pentland, they
were, they were top performers. And I worked, I
served apprenticeship on them. The Hugh Ferris is
a marvelous
one. And, uh, I went up to see him, showed him my
work, and said, gee, I'd like to use you part-time.
He said, you want to come up? And so between four and
five, or four to six and a half, I'd go to work with
him. Or Precious, just pick up. Then I'd go to
others. I learned pencils through Otto Eggers,
another one, and Chester Price with Wolfman. But I
went to, and they took me in so beautifully.
Because I wanted to learn. I said, you've got
potential. And they, because that's where I said,
another big advantage I had. But I would like to
work with a top performer. Well, you can get a lot of
it to hurt you, but it's like teaching art. They can
destroy it. Art teachers can destroy you very
fast. I've seen some. Anyhow, but I said I had a
beautiful advantage. But everything, you know, I
look at it, and I seem to fall into place all the
time. I get dead desperate at times. God, God, I'm
mad at you. I was doing this A&M series here when I
stayed there two years. There was a booger.
Because there was something important. It was
wonderful to do it. It wasn't always highly
inspirational, the architecture wasn't, and all
those things, but I had to try to do the best I could
with it, namely just putting kids in there, and
bicycles and things like that, and honorizing.
But I spent two years, you know, that thing, but I
enjoyed that because I did, I've done innumerable
sketches the first year that I haven't shown
anybody yet, but the preliminaries, I'd ride,
they'd call it, they'd ride bicycles, and then,
and building a bonfire. I spent a week out there
watching them when they pulled those, The log was
up by hand, and I got a whole series on that. In fact,
I hadn't even seen it. I was talking to somebody
about, yes, they're buckwires, and she said, my
God, Wayne, why can't we use those somewhere down
the line to show how you arrived at these things?
But I hadn't given it a thought. But that was a
really rugged one. But I stayed up here. Of course,
I liked associating with Frank. Being here was, we
always meet what you call top performers,
whatever people, good writers. nationally known
people. Now this next week Alfred Knopf's coming
down. He's one of the great book men in America. But
he's going to be here for lunch and guests. And all
of these people are going to come. But they're
marvelous people. They're big people. And it's
been a tremendous asset to me. Because it gave me
some of my self confidence. Because they are so
humble and beautiful. But the bigger they are, I
find out, the more delightful they are in
understanding. But I'm going back now tomorrow.
I'm trying to finish my wake up at Westhoff, where
I'm on right now, for the third book. And they want
me to stay on here, but I don't want to right now. But
I got the Freedom up there, till you see it. 1100
acre range, I'm right in the middle of it. It's old
custodian, got all my beautiful cattle, and
carpentry, and cattle, nature. But it's a
delight. Then I come back here now, but this place
has been held for me. I went to see Jack Williams the
other day, the whole afternoon with Jack and
Margaret and told him about what I was doing and
said, Buck, just do what you want to do. This place
will always be yours. I said, I may want to come back
sometime. It's been a long tenure, I don't know.
I'm not going to make any plans no more. Don't pin me
down. Don't fence me in. But I mean, it won't work.
When they come back from the war then, Buck, in
1945, then you, then you go out to... To go to Hunt.
Then you go to Hunt for a while. Yeah. How long do you
stay at Hunt? Oh, I guess a couple of years. It was a
devastating, but it almost polished me off, I must
say. Then we came back to Houston. They wanted me
back at the agency. They had, they said, got a new
place. So I joined, and then I went to find this
place on Lubbock. We had a marvelous old
apartment. I reconverted, and I started back here
with the agency. And had a nice go with it. I was very
happy. I got back with what you call associations
that I needed. That's a load. And you get to see good
shows and even exhibits sometimes. You had all
these private galleries I could run around and I
could see what my fellow artists were doing. You
have to have it. Some artists don't, like you take
Winslow Homer. He was tremendously introverted.
I mean, he just almost despised this fellow man.
And he threw rocks at people. I talked to some of the
people who went up there. The interviewer, he
said, he and his gardeners got into trouble. I
mean, he even had a gun. But he didn't. But look what
the way he accomplished that. See? You can go ahead
and allocate your time to idle visitations and
people who have nothing to contribute and beat you
to death. But you have to be very discretionary and
discretionary in who you're associated with,
too. Now, you continued your own work, though,
when you got back to Houston in 47, because you
paid... Oh, I came here. Yeah, you paid a whole lot
between 47 and... Oh, yeah. I think I got more than
five knots there. And, of course, Meredith Long
took me on about eight years ago, I guess. Now, when
you come back and you rejoin the agency in 47, did
you freelance, too, then, about it? Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I freelanced in 47. I said I did work for Dark
Chemical, one of the big towns. I did them. Not for
them, not even for DuPont. I went down to the coal
mines in Peonia, but you're talking about
something, in Colorado. Got on in there with a man,
he had a sketch just like this. Couldn't use any,
couldn't take pictures, but I want to get, I want to
get, I'll show you all that, but people don't know
that I worked for DuPont in the coal mines, which I
did. Well, I didn't realize you'd been with
DuPont. Now, I knew you'd been with that when you
worked for Humboldt. Yeah, but I just worked for
DuPont, too. But that was a booger. Yeah. I read
about these people being trapped like that, so I
felt all the time when the beam was going to come
down. Well, it was interesting.
And then when you, by the 50s you were working all
the time with Humboldt, almost all together.
Humboldt took other assignments on. We had the
City National Bank, that big new bank building,
but we had about 25 accounts. And I did actually,
when I had Coon Paint Company, I took a look at some,
Dental Maze, Ms. Bear's Bread, Sanitary. But I
designed all the posters and the land, everything
for those people. I don't know how I did it now. I
couldn't. But it was just, I don't know, but it just
said, damn it, you got to do it. But it was rough. How
large was the agency then? Oh, well, I think at that
time, we were about at least third in the state of
Texas. There was Tracy Lock Dawson. You know, over
here there's some Glenn Advertising Agency, and I
served as a big top performer. We had about, didn't
have to do the whole size, but 25, more than that
person there. So when you would, when you did the
layouts, would you do the whole layout yourself,
or would you assign it to people? Oh, I assigned,
finally I got to where I got a coterie of artists
that do special types of things, good layout
artists, the ones that do away from certain food
products and all those figures, but no, and then
we'd form stuff out to different, I had a lot of
freelance artists start coming to Houston, we'd
just form work out, but the layouts, but I did more
finish work, I guess, in every category, except
real, but I did a lot of figure work, people don't
realize, illustration, too. I did, but, no, my, it
hadn't, I haven't divulged too much of what I've
done, actually, to people not aware of the work
I've done in advertising. I think I'll be now on the
Times the humble way, in my two books, in the Texas,
but that's as far as, I mean, advertising, I've got
just as much of that, and of course I still have all
that. I'll bring it back and keep some of it, but I
haven't tremendously done it. By this time,
you're talking about roughly the mid-50s
someplace. And you're on the road a great deal.
When did you decide to leave the agency? I didn't
leave the agency. Well, it was about 66, I think.
66. 66, yeah. In fact, I got this retirement status
at that time. But I never did leave it. They kept my
office. They said I didn't have to retire. It was a
reminder. We were submerged by the McCann Air
Force. than the New York people, because they just
changed the whole ballgame for us. I mean,
approaches like technical motivation,
research, and all that type of thing. But it
worked. But we had time trying to get adjusted to
that. But we sold out our stock, too. I sold my
mechanics every bit of it. And when I left, of
course, they told me that. Well, thank you, blah,
blah, blah. God bless you and all that. This office
is yours as a memorial." Hell, I wasn't going. I
said, whenever you're back, it'll be there. Just
open it up and go back. In a week, I had all the
Yankees, a couple of Yankees were in there
already. They called me up. Nice people. I said,
well, that's the nature of the game. I didn't care.
Did you go back to hunt then in the 60s? I somehow
have you placed there in the 60s, Bob. I was there in
the 60s. Yeah, we went back and gave it another try
after we got out. Oh, we kept our Houston place. We
had a nice home in Houston on Auburn Street, West
University. Came back there now and then, but we
just stayed and hunted periodically, I must say.
We kept it mainly in summer and spring and fall, but
in winter it's just not good right now. I'm tempted
to go up there. But I would go back now, and of
course, we have a beautiful spot. Oh my God. One of
the finest places on the river. But I have 12 acres
up there, and it's worth quite a sum of money. So I
don't know what to do with it, but anyhow. But of
course, the thing was, Ruth Lee was working up
there too, and she was very strong with the UDC, the
Daughters of the Confederacy. She was a
historian, but she, magnificent work she did for
them, research and making plans. But she's gone.
Dead hospital three years now, just down, down,
down, just a vegetable. But there's a woman, one of
the most remarkable talents, being a women's
talisman. But she just, I could have happened to
me. I said, why in the world have you? Well, the
doctor said, but it's uncanny the way you
survived, which had been true. But right now, then
I had, I was paralyzed in 74 completely. The side
went out. I was laying in a wheelchair in a walking
frame and finally everything came back. Yeah, I
remember that in 74. Man, that's how you feel. You
lay out there. I was 14, I was out there in the rocks.
I couldn't even move. But it's one of those things,
well, good, you know, it happened. Maybe that's
what you should have happened. I don't talk, look
very philosophical, acceptance. Then I had this
cancer operation, which was last year, July.
Found this thing started acting up on my leg. Boy, I
didn't pay attention to it. I was just doctoring,
you know. It was Sharon Steen. She was my business
manager, the oldest person. When she saw it, my
God, I said, you're all really in trouble. So I see
this doctor, I don't go to that, Dr. High in Cuero,
and he said, well, that's Anderson. They ran a
camera, whatever it is, and said, you're going
straight to Anderson. Which they did, and then he
ripped me open, took me out, and put cotton seeds on
or something, and took a lot of me. But that's all. I
mean, it was another month. It had been too late.
I'd been up here. But I went through that, and I feel
about as well as I've felt in my life now. And I've
been exercising for a long while, but I just feel
like I'm leaving. When did you decide to come back
to A&M? In 72? I was 72. It was later than that. I came
to A&M, S.C. I must have been 74. I came up here. I had
a paralysis. I had to come out. I came up after that.
This thing here, I was fortunate. I was here before
Frank came in. I was here before since, yeah, 72.
Oh, yeah. But I went on back to hunt. But I was here by
myself until Frank, they moved, saw this
wonderful Bailey here, came in. It was what they
wanted. So the press came. And then Frank wanted me
to join up. They said, we want you to be part of this
thing. I said, I'll go along with you. I was a kid, so
I've had a nice build up. They've been beautiful
people to be around. But Frank, My association
with him has been tremendously rewarding at
Rosemary's of mine, but I don't know, everything I
have, of course, I've had rosebud, but it's been as
a beautiful pattern for me. I always look at
something, what is this thing? I've learned to
accept it, but sometimes it bewilders me, it
really does. Why? Why am I still around? See? But
I'm functioned by Elizabeth. So maybe there's a
purpose. But of course, the Steens were beautiful
to me. I went down there for the Turkey Festival.
They had bought our place, our charity, over here.
Our old house, and they had, oh, God, they did a
magnificent job of refurbishing their wealthy
people. And they had this big ranch in the west over
there, 100 acres. So I just went out there and spent
a week in that big ranch house. I said, I don't want
to go back there. There's a freedom. And I stayed on
and on. I called back and said, when are you coming
in? He said, in a week. I said, I don't know. Jack
said, Buck, you're a resident. I said, you ought to
come back now and just raise it. I said, Jack, I'm
going to give it every consideration. He's
laughing. No, but I will. But I want to retain this.
I don't know what's in store. Maybe I'll be back.
But it's not, it's a little bit too confining for
me. This is just a little room in the boarding
house. I spread my wings. Was there anybody close
to you when you were a queer old? Just out there by
yourself? Well, I'm not supposed to be. I'm not
supposed to drive a car by myself, but I do it all.
No, I said, when you say you can't do it, I said,
well, hell, I can't. I mean, it's a silly, as a
childish attitude, but that's the way I feel. No.
No, it's stubbornness that's supposed to be.
Buck, you've probably become now, in the last six
or seven years, the best known of the Texas
artists. I guess so. What's been your reaction to
that? Because as we've been talking, you know,
certainly I suspect even in the 50s, you know, when
I first began your stuff with Humble Way, you
weren't really that well known as a fine artist.
No, until Meredith took me over, of course. I've
had some good luck, but he gave me what's called
image. He's a good man, but he gave me these two
beautiful shows that started me out, because it
came almost a sell-out. He had one last October. It
went over good, and I've got a new deal in Dallas
with Meredith, and they're going to take a damn
view of it. I'm not married to Meredith, but this
Bill Baker, they've got a marvelous brand gallery
in Dallas. But he took me. I took nine of my pieces
out, they came to see me. He said, oh, let me have
them. But I said, I'm not, but I am not obligated to
marry. But he said, we need, I need, I want to get
into North Texas, too. Why not just confine myself
to the, to marry this little premise? So, he's
going to have this huge opening up there, March the
25th. God, what a magnificent gal he's put in. But
he, he's got my things up there, and he's already
sold quite a few. He said, But I'm not out to make a
killing and all, I'm not, but I just wanted to
perform, because it's nice to have a substantial
income. You bet. You bet. I did, because that's
another thing in my favor. But I've made lots of
investments in stocks and things. I've got a
dividends company. I've got a source of income
outside of my own by investments. It's a place I
would hunt for, $80,000 or more. I don't, it don't
mean, I just want to be comfortable. I said, I ought
to go out now, boy, this kid come here, get me a Rolls
Royce Silver Cloud, and look and say, hey, you
peasants. You know, but that's, but I got smaller,
I don't care about that. No, I should be a world
traveler, but I don't kind of, of course, I
wouldn't want to go out and kick up my heel, but
she's hopeless. You know, you got to do something,
oh, that is really a terrifying experience. Not
terrifying, but sorry to go to state hospital. And
intense care wasn't sick.